# `Server`

The `Server` module provides the `dev` and `prod` functions. These start up a
"development" and "production" server respectively.

## `dev` features

The development server optimises for developer-experience rather than runtime
performance. Some of the features require `Revise.jl` to function, ensure that
you have that package setup in your global environment before starting the
server.

### Automatic Page Updates

Automatic page updates on file changes without refreshing browser tabs. This
will watch all source files for changes and push the updated HTML to the
browser via SSE (server sent events). New HTML content is swapped with the
current HTML with [`idiomorph`](https://github.com/bigskysoftware/idiomorph).

This feature integrates with `Revise` and a router auto-reloader, which allows
for addition and removal of route definitions in the server without the need to
restart it. The usual limitations of `Revise` apply to this feature, ie. no
`struct` re-definitions, etc.

### Automatic Browser Tab Opening

When starting up a `dev` server a browser tab is opened pointing to the `/`
route. On macOS if using a Chromium-based browser then if there is alread a tab
open pointing at this server then it is reused. This uses the same approach
used by [Vite](https://vite.dev/).

### Source Code Lookup

"DOM-to-Source" lookup, via `HypertextTemplates.jl`. When using this package
for template rendering source information for all nodes in the rendered web
page are stored and can be used to jump to the source location in your default
editor by selecting a part of the webpage, typically some text, and pressing
`Ctrl+2`. Pressing `Ctrl+1` will jump to the root `@render` macro call that
generated the element, which can be useful if the current state of a page
consists of HTML generated by different routes. This feature requires `Revise`
to be imported for it to function.

### `/docs/` route

All documentation for defined routes that make up the application is available
at the `/docs/` route. This change be changed via the `docs` keyword provided
by `dev`. This provides a summary overview and details view for each route,
which includes any attached docstrings, `path`, `query`, and `body` types,
along with source code links that will open your default editor to the source
of the route.

### `/errors/` route

Any errors that are thrown during development cause a separate browser tab to
open with an interactive view of the stacktrace and error message. Source links
in the stacktrace are clickable and open your default editor at that location.

The `/errors/` root route itself lists all errors that the application has
encountered while running, and allows you to navigate back to previous errors.

The name of this route change be changed if it conflicts with your application
by changing the `errors` keyword in the `dev` call.

## `prod` features

The `prod` function removes all the above features of `dev`. Aside from that
the interface is identical. The production server optimises for runtime
performance, avoid attempting to develop your application using `prod` since
the experience will not be particular nice. Ensure that `Revise` is not loaded
when running a server via `prod` in production since you may leak source
location information from rendered templates.

## Docstrings

```@autodocs
Modules = [
    ReloadableMiddleware.Server,
]
```
